🩺 Dr. GRPO loss (#3256)
huggingface/trl: docs/source/grpo_trainer.md

$$

The DAPO paper highlights the limitations of the GRPO algorithm’s sample-level loss in long-CoT scenarios, where longer responses are under-penalized, leading to poorer quality outputs. The proposed solution is a token-level normalization, which better handles longer sequences by assigning more balanced rewards to individual tokens, regardless of response length:

$$
\mathcal{L}_{\text{DAPO}}(\theta) = - \frac{1}{\sum_{i=1}^G |o_i|} \sum_{i=1}^G \sum_{t=1}^{|o_i|} l_{i,t},
$$

Furthermore, it was demonstrated in the paper [Understanding R1-Zero-Like Training: A Critical Perspective](https://huggingface.co/papers/2503.14476) that the initial GRPO formulation introduces a response length bias. They show that while the DAPO formulation reduces this bias, it does not eliminate it completely. To fully remove this bias, they propose dividing by a constant instead of the sequence length, resulting in the following formulation:

$$
\mathcal{L}_{\text{Dr. GRPO}}(\theta) = - \frac{1}{LG} \sum_{i=1}^G \sum_{t=1}^{|o_i|} l_{i,t},
$$

> This constant is recommended to be the maximum completion length. To use this formulation, set `loss_type="drgrpo"` in the [`GRPOConfig`].

Reviewer: turbo nit but I think we should follow the same convention we use in `DPOTrainer` to snake_case loss names:
```suggestion
This constant is recommended to be the maximum completion length. To use this formulation, set `loss_type="dr_grpo"` in the [`GRPOConfig`].
```
